---
title: the secrecy won't keep you free (week notes 005)
date: 2024-08-18
tags:
  - week-notes
draft: false
---
# Doing
* This week I learned that I'm **allergic to yellowjacket stings** in the worst way possible (not that there's a good way). I was attacked by a nest of them while mowing the lawn and had to go to the ER.
* Contemplating my intense introversion.
* I was able to finally get together with a dear friend for a walk through the park — we have been trying to see each other for a while now but schedules and weather kept getting in the way. Talking to her, a kindred spirit, nourishes me.
# Reading
* **_The Basic Eight_ by Daniel Handler.** Finished in the first hours of this week. I wrote up [a full post](/the-basic-eight) with my thoughts.
* **_Death Is Not an Option_ by Suzanne Rivecca.** I'm about halfway through this. It's middling; there's a lot of weird sex that I simply do not connect to, and all of the narrators / protagonists feel the same even though this is a collection of unrelated short stories.
* **[There’s an apostrophe battle brewing among grammar nerds. Is it Harris’ or Harris’s?](https://apnews.com/article/harris-walz-apostrophe-possessive-grammar-967c0bbefc09be6c804588daabed7ec9) by Holly Tamer.** This is the kind of presidential race news coverage I want to see in this world.
# Watching
* **Into the Aether's Pokemon Emerald Nuzlocke.** I really like Into the Aether and the TWG network, and Joe is a big fan of watching Pokemon challenges on YouTube. We are not far in, but we are enjoying it so far.
# Playing
* **_Rock Band 4._** I have a friend visiting this week — it's a great party game.
* **_Carcassone._** A board game staple in my house.
# Listening
* Nothing particular beyond some shuffles, but my mom came over with her old Fleetwood Mac records and we realized that my record player has been spinning *slightly* too fast (~33.7rpm instead of 33.3). I noticed it months ago with Mac Miller's *GO:ODAM*, but I thought it might just be the press. We fixed it and now I feel I have to re-listen to all my records.
