---
title: I guess I feel a bit lost without you (week notes 007)
date: 2024-09-01
tags:
  - week-notes
draft: false
---

# Doing
* **I re-did my website!** I've detailed it all [in a separate post](/what%27s-this-%28and-how-it-works%29/), but I'm really excited about making weird stuff online here. I will miss being on the bearblog discovery feed, but this is also a push for me to get involved more on webrings & other small web communities.[^1]
* I'm **starting to get my classroom ready** for the school year. I'm really excited about some of the changes I'm making — the physical layout of the room, curricular changes, routines, and philosophies. We go back to school on Tuesday, so this is really the end stretch of summer.
* I was pretty social this week! I had a friend and coworker over to help us identify some of the plants we have on our property; had a different friend over to play some games; went to see a Fleetwood Mac cover band with some of my partner's coworkers; and had my sister and her boyfriend over to go hiking and out to lunch.
# Reading
- **[An unrelenting sense of longing (or: “Maps”)](https://gkeenan.co/avgb/an-unrelenting-sense-of-longing/) by Keenan.** "Maps" rocks and I love reading fellow music sickos.
- **_Death Is Not an Option_ by Suzanne Rivecca.** Plugging along, slowly. Rivecca's prose is excellent but none of the stories have really gripped me; all the protagonists are of a singular type that I don't really connect to.
# Watching
* **[Into the Aether's Pokemon Emerald Nuzlocke](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1bYvqnTvUCg&list=PLe_AuQUfBKl5R3Sc7Erpq3Y2me6q6uZ0R)** We finished it this week — a tragic end to a great series. RIP TONYSOPRAN.
# Playing
- ***Pokémon White Version*.** Played here and there; I think I'm losing my enthusiasm for it.
- We had a friend over and played a little ***Rock Band*** and ***Mario Party Superstars**.*
- ***Final Fantasy XIV.*** Just a bit on Sunday night; focusing on leveling my Marauder (almost to 50!) and my Squadrons. I've also started doing my Sylph Beast Tribe quests again because I want the Goobbue Mount.
# Listening
- **_Oblivion Will Own Me and Death Alone Will Love Me (Void Filler)_, _Every Moment of Every Day_, and _Fates Worse Than Death_, Short Fictions.** I saw Short Fictions at Warsaw when they opened for Los Campesinos! I really enjoyed them live and sat down to listen to a few of their albums (they were kind enough to [post their setlist!](https://www.reddit.com/r/loscampesinos/comments/1dia0oy/comment/l92otja/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button)). Their music lacks some novelty compared to the live performance, but I still like a few songs — notably, "Anymore," "Nothingness Lies Coiled at the Heart of Being (It’s Such a Good Feeling)," and "Forever Endeavor."
- **["Feather Test"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sYRRR3vRroA) by A Weather.** This may be my song this year.[^2] I fell in love with it a few months ago and returned to it this week. I love, I love, I love (*I will, I will*). A beautiful, breathy mix of fleeting, intersecting harmonies with a rich and simplistic production. Every line strikes. ("Brush your hand / Across where you felt me / Do I pass the feather test?")

[^1]: Also, importantly, I blog to write, not to be read. I guess.
[^2]: The song came out 17 years ago. I don't care. It means something to me now.
