---
draft: false
title: what would it mean for us if i fell off this slide? (week notes 012)
tags:
  - week-notes
date: 2024-10-13
---
I'm doing a condensed post this week because I have been so busy with work!

* Joe and I finished our rewatch of **_Gilmore Girls_**, and I'm happy to say that I still love the show. It goes downhill in season six and is borderline unwatchable in season seven, but I have such affection for all before that — especially the warm blanket, cozy autumn early seasons.

* I'm watching Joe play **_The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom_**.

* I haven't been listening to anything in particular — mostly shuffles.

* I did not have time for reading this week, but I'm so close to finishing **_The Sound of a Wild Snail Eating_**, and I intend to start **_Into the Wild_** next.

* I loved [grubz's post about coming out](https://blog.grubz.net/2024/10/why-even-come-out-if-youre-bi-or-pan). I have [written on a similar subject here before](https://esotericbullshit.net/coming-out/), although their post has me also thinking about how the performance of gender roles in my relationship is, in many ways, queer.

* At a district-wide conference day, different teams delivered a training I helped develop. It's something I have been pushing for since March of 2021. In many ways, it feels like a culmination of that journey — though I feel mixed about how our administration has behaved about it — but I'm also trying to view it as just another step forward. We have so much more to do.

* I started planning (and inviting people to) my birthday party! I am turning 30 next month and have all sorts of feelings about it. A friend who moved away a few months ago (and who we have dearly missed) is going to come out for it, too, so I am really just trying to focus on being excited to celebrate with the people I care about.