---
draft: false
title: spend my days running in circles (week notes 013)
tags: [week-notes]
date: 2024-10-20
---

# Doing
* I presented to pre-service teachers at my alma mater with a colleague! Emotionally, I still feel like I was in their spot not that long ago — and then I remember I graduated over six years ago (and into a vastly different world and job market).
* I'm finding myself using ellipses a lot and I do not like it. Is this growing old? Am I becoming a boomer?
* I'm thinking about maintaining some kind of daily log — just simple, passing notes on what I did, what I thought about. Obsidian has this feature built in and it might be a good way to start. I like the idea of it being searchable and (theoretically) infinite in size, but I also want an excuse for another notebook.
	* I used to do daily reflections at the end of my work day. Slowly, those became every few days, then every week, then rarely. It was a good practice that I wish I had maintained, but there's already so much I'm packing into my work day — and my goal in daily notes is to be more mindful about what I'm doing and thinking in my free time.
* I attended my state-wide English teacher conference; this is something like my sixth or seventh time attending and I still find it valuable. I left with a lot of great ideas on how to diversify my practice and better empower my students.
# Watching
* **_Percy Jackson and the Olympians._** Joe and I have watched a few episodes. I liked the book fine, but the TV show has yet to grab me. It lacks Percy's narrative voice (and personality), and while it's good that Percy is played by an actual child, his pre-pubescent voice freaks me out.
* **_Broad City_**. Joe and I watched a lot of _Broad City_ early in our relationship, but we never finished it. We are starting it over from the beginning. Still funny! 
# Listening
* **Charli XCX, _Brat and it's completely different but also still brat_.** Every re-release and new drop for _brat_ innovates, co-exists, and complements. The features on this remix album feel like an ode to the remarkable original release and a statement of how pivotal the album has been personally and for the industry writ large. This version of "Everything is romantic" is as much a remix as an iteration; the original captures a single moment in beautiful, mimetic detail, and this one is another artist following the theme and form with their own experiences. _brat_ is undoubtedly a project we'll all be talking about when we discuss the music of the 2020s; I love witnessing its creation in real time.
	* For the haters, a friend of mine said the mixing was bad and that it "just sounds like noise." I still like her (Charli and the friend, in that order[^1]).
* **Foxholes, _Foxholes_.** I found "Alligator" while going through Daytrotter archives and loved it; the rest of the album is pleasant listening, but "Alligator" is the stand out.
* **Yung Lean, _Stardust_.** I loved Yung Lean's feature on _Brat and it's completely different but also still brat_; imagine my surprise when I discovered that [the esoteric bullshit (or so I thought) I was listening to ten+ years ago as a joke but not really](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=stgrSjynPKs&pp=ygUJeXVuZyBsZWFu) went on to be a critically recognized artist. I thought it was just a weird fucking song. 
	* _Stardust_ is a much more polished and, dare I say, coherent and digestible[^2] product than "Hurt"; I like it, but I'm not sure any of the songs will earn the coveted ⭐ on Plex.[^3] It's music I'd have to be in a mood for — although the mumble-y nature of it makes it good background music while working. Maybe it just needs to sit with me a little more.
[^1]: just kidding :-)
[^2]: but the contrary is maybe more fun
[^3]: maybe I should do a write up on how I organize my ridiculous music collection (18191 tracks and growing every day)
