---
title: to find part of you still works is like a tiny victory (week notes 016)
date: 2024-12-08
url: week-notes/016
tags:
  - week-notes
draft: false
---
# Doing
* I went for a run with a good friend at an indoor track near me. The track itself is quite short, so the run is a little awkward, but it's a super soft flooring which made the run easy on my joints. It's nice to have a new run buddy, too!
* Saturday I felt angry and sick and exhausted all day; I'd intended to go out and do holiday shopping but instead just rotted at home. I know I needed the rest, but seemingly everything put me in a bad mood. It's maybe just PMS — I haven't been good about tracking my cycle lately, though — or just the seasonal depression. It's shit no matter what it is.
# Reading
* [Hometown Visit](https://lanadelrue.bearblog.dev/hometown-visit). I love reading folks who blog about their loves. It's probably voyeuristic — I don't know that it reflects well on me — but it makes me wish I had the courage to do the same.
* **Sandra Cisneros, _Woman Hollering Creek_.** I'm waiting for _Villette_ to come in, so I wanted something that would be easy to jump in and out of. This fits the bill; I love _Mango Street_ dearly and this simply feels like more of it (albeit not following one character, but then, Cisneros's stories all seem to co-exist).
* [25 Wirecutter Journalists Can’t Be Wrong: How Owala Became an Official Water Bottle Pick](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/owala-freesip-review/). What a ridiculously self-important, self-absorbed article. I generally like and use Wirecutter; some of their recommendations are ridiculously decadent and detached from reality, but they are one of the few reliable online sources for product reviews and recommendations. I am all for an ode to something you love and that makes your life better, but this read not as "we tested and compared a lot of products" but more "we all have good taste and have this water bottle so it must be good, right?"
# Watching
* **[Evermore: The Theme Park That Wasn't - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L9OhTB5eBqQ) by Jenny Nicholson.** I love Jenny's videos but hadn't watched this one yet; I dozed through portions but enjoyed it all the same.
# Playing
* **_Pride & Prejudice The Board Game_**. My brother gifted this to me years ago and I've never found an opportunity to play it. A student of mine is listening to the audiobook of _P&P_ on my recommendation and I told her about the board game; I thought I should play it first myself, so I convinced Joe to play with me.
* **_Fabledom_**. This has been in my Steam wishlist for ages, and I wanted a cozy game to try to quell my Saturday mood. It's OK. I enjoyed the time I put into it, but I don't think I will go back to it. City builders tend to entertain me for a few hours, but then I reach the later points of the game (or it becomes a chore to manage everything) and get bored.
# Listening
I've had three songs in rotation this week: "Clown Blood/Orpheus' Bobbing Head" by Los Campesinos!, "up" by Pigthe, and "You Good? (In Medias Res)" by Proper.