---
title: hold on tight to this time, this place (week notes 020)
date: 2025-01-11
tags:
  - week-notes
draft: false
---
I had a friend over one evening for pizza and card games — mostly Fan Tan and Blackjack, which are almost the only card games I like. My volleyball rec league started up again this week; I haven't made time for physical exercise lately, and volleyball is a good commitment. I'd like to start running again soon too, but I'm nursing a minor foot injury that I'd like to see cleared up before I put too much stress on it. Thursday was the school spelling bee, which is both fun and heart-wrenching to watch.

Joe and I went out to dinner on Friday at a restaurant we love. We're not a "date night" couple, but he suggested going out and it was really nice — we haven't really made time recently to do things just the two of us. It was a good way to end the week.

I'm reading *Pride & Prejudice*, still, and am still loving it — I just haven't had much time to read with going back to school this week. I'm almost done, though, and I'm really excited to read *Villette* by Charlotte Brontë next.

To close out my viewing of **_Girls_**, I watched [Princess Weekes's thoughtful and well-rounded analysis of it](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=sQY0F_ioh6Q). I generally agree with a lot of what she's said. I think the racial politics and whiteness of the show sucks, and while I think Lena is somewhat correct in her defense that she wrote from her own experience and would not perhaps be able to authentically write characters of color, that all could easily have been solved by just having a more diverse writing staff. Lena deserves much of the flack she gets, but I also think Weekes is correct that that ire should also be directed to the studio execs who do not prioritize diversity — as **_Girls_** is far from the only show to have had this problem (even though it became the lightning rod for it, for both good and bad faith reasons).

I listened to *form without content* by **luminism** after hearing a song of theirs on *YARG*. The album as a whole wasn't for me, [but I like "poser" a lot](https://luminism.bandcamp.com/track/poser-2). It feels like a song I'd have loved when I was 13, which is a rare sort of nostalgia for me.

---
I'm trying out doing my week notes without the big headings. We'll see what I land on as a format!