---
title: I know if I don't go now I won't make it out (week notes 010)
date: 2024-09-22
url: week-notes/010
tags: [week-notes]
draft: true
---

# Doing
* My volleyball rec league started back up! I'm awful and uncoordinated on the court, but it's fun to play with friends, and I have learned the hard way that I'm a lot less depressed when I'm active.
* I'm enjoying reading ex-cohost folks on the bearblog discovery feed. The trending feed can get a little stale.[^1] I hope they stick around.
* I took a walk (and a run) with a dear friend that I've been trying to get together with for a while. She's decades older than me, but we are incredibly like-minded. Kindred spirits. I appreciate her wisdom and guidance and friendship immensely as she listens to all my neuroses.
# Reading
* **_No One Belongs Here More than You,_ Miranda July.** I stand by what I said last week. I think I need a break from the sexual deviants I'm apparently (and unconsciously) selecting lately. I'm glad to be done with this; I appreciated July's occasional wit and found it Handler-esque, but those touches were few and far between, and the rest of it mostly just grossed me out.
* My next books will be _The Sound of a Wild Snail Eating_, recommended by a friend and coworker, and, I think, _Into the Wild_, which I've always meant to read. It might not seem like much for an English teacher, but these past few months I've been reading for pleasure more than I have in years and it has me feeling so full. It's great to rediscover that joy.[^2]
# Listening
* **_Green Dream in F#_ and _Rare Birds_, The Bug Club.** I asked a student of mine what kind of music she listened to; she said her music was too weird and I'd probably never heard of it. I took that as a personal challenge. But it's not that weird — although, as an (ex?) Xiu Xiu listener, my barometer is off.
* I'm thinking about a recurring theme in songs I am or have been fixated on —
	* **"Drops (reprise)," The Peripheral Ones** - "I know if I don't go now I won't make it out"
	* **"The Whale Song," Modest Mouse** - "I guess I am a scout / so I should find a way out / so everyone can find a way out"
	*  **"Ave Maria," Mac Miller** - "Have you found a way out?" & **"Come Back to Earth"** - "I just need a way out of my head / I'll do anything for a way out of my head"
*  — the idea of making it out is, of course, not a unique theme, but perhaps it's why *The House on Mango Street* resonated with me: *"For the ones I left behind. For the ones who cannot out."*
[^1]: I think posts don't decay quickly enough from the feed, and the top page or two of trending posts are all by the same handful of people. There's a handful of very active posters, which is a great thing, but I like to see variety there.
[^2]: A friend of mine, a music teacher, told me a few months ago, sadly, that she wasn't finding joy in music anymore. She made a life change and was hoping to reclaim it. I think that's what inspired me to start reading again.
