---
created: 2024-09-30T05:31:58-04:00
modified: 2024-10-04T05:43:59-04:00
draft: true
title: (week notes 011)
---

I'm doing two weeks in one post. Last week I was dead sick and working too much so I didn't assemble a post throughout the week as I normally do.

# Reading
* **_The Sound of a Wild Snail Eating_ by Elizabeth Tova Bailey.** I'm reading this on recommendation of a friend and coworker. The writing has a beautiful directness, but I'm not really fascinated by snails. It is interesting to read something so scientific in approach that is still a work of literature, however; it leaves me to consider how our different disciplines — me as an English teacher and my coworker a Science teacher — change the way we think and look at the world.
* **[a ranking of iMac G3 colors](https://platinumtulip.bearblog.dev/a-ranking-of-imac-g3-colors/) by tulip.**

# Watching
* **_Gilmore Girls_, season six.** Joe and I have reached about the end of the season. I think six has some good moments and episodes but is, on the whole, drudgery. Luke's character takes a bizarre turn, and I somehow have even less patience for Rory and Logan's relationship this time around.

# Playing
* Joe and I have played more of *_KotOR II_*, which is really him watching me play and selecting dialogue options with me. He really does not care for the combat; I don't love it either, but having played so much of this game and the first as a kid, I know my way around it much better. He doesn't seem to like any of the characters yet; on one hand, I get that, because I think the _KotOR II_ characters are much more complex and harder to initially like than the first game's, but maybe the series just isn't for him...

# Listening
* Bug club album
