---
title: (week notes 21)
date: 2025-01-12
tags:
  - week-notes
draft: true
---
# Doing
I recently discovered some weirdness with my hard drives in my PC. It's a long story that isn't worth telling, but the end of it is that I bought an nvme drive and am starting fresh with a clean install of Windows. It's fairly painless now that I have a drive that's *just* my files with a separate OS drive. I do have to reinstall and set up some apps again, but it has been a good opportunity to reassess the cruft I've let build up on there over the years and to move to more FOSS alternatives. 

# Reading

# Watching

# Playing
I had some friends over and played ***YARG*** with them. I'm happy to have a backup and potential replacement for *Rock Band* as it is no longer maintained and I don't know if I see myself buying another home console ever (*Rock Band* is the only thing I turn my PS4 on for these days). I'm a little disappointed that many of the fan-made charts out there are only for guitar, but there's still a great library to select from.

# Listening
I listened to Mac Miller's *Circles* all the way through, I think for the first time since it released, after a friend became hyperfixated on "Right" (which I had not heard yet — I never listened to the bonus tracks for the deluxe release). I had such mixed feelings about it when it came out; it's the first posthumous release I've ever really *thought* about, and it just didn't grab me on release. I think it didn't feel like an authentic Mac release; I don't hold any ill will for anyone involved, and I think his family has handled his estate respectfully, but it was missing something. Regardless, I wanted to see how I felt years on, so I jotted feelings down track-by-track.
* Circles - love
* Complicated - the synths in this song are so bad, and the pitched up ab libs are awful. It feels like if someone else tried to make a Mac song and imitate the Delusional Thomas features.
* Blue World - like it more than I remember but it is a little grating
* Good News - good; loved it when I first heard it but it's gotten a little stale
* I Can See - again, the synths! They're awful. They sound like a jrpg hotel track and not in a good way.
* Everybody - another I like more than I recall. I like hearing Mac sing, but there's something very stale in the instrumentation and production. It's a refined but dry track.
* Hand Me Downs - probably the most reminiscent of Mac's *Swimming* sound. Despite that, it's not my favorite; I like the Mac parts but not whoever is featured on it

And, of course, **_Balloonerism_** was released this week. I'd heard all but two songs through listening to leaks, so it didn't hold any great surprises for me, but I love it still — it's a fantastically weird, experimental little project that has some of my favorite Mac songs on it (namely, "Do You Have a Destination?" And "Excelsior"). It's beautiful to hear the tracks properly mastered and to assuage some of my guilt about listening to leaks, but it's bittersweet, too: this feels pretty definitively like the last proper Mac release we will see aside from some bonus tracks and loosies on anniversary editions. *Blue Slide Park* aside (it's about the progress, the journey!), I think Mac was an incredible artist with so much still left to share when he passed