---
title: I finished The Basic Eight and I can't decide if I enjoyed it
date: 2024-08-17
url: the-basic-eight
tags:
  - literature
draft: false
---
Spoilers to follow. 

I wrote in my week notes:
>  **_The Basic Eight_ by Daniel Handler.** Handler's _Adverbs_ is often what I cite when folks ask what my favorite book is, and I loved _Watch Your Mouth_, too. I need light reprieves from _The Odyssey_, too, so this seemed an excellent time to round out my reading of Handler's bibliography. I'm about halfway through and enraptured by the narrative voice. It's pretentious, as a story narrated by a precocious high school senior should be, without being cloying, and with Handler's charming humor throughout. I love it so far and have faith that the feeling will continue. I normally hate books set in high school, but this one takes me back to my high school self — somehow, in a good way, which I don't think I've ever felt before.

I finished the book an hour or two after posting that.

I stand by some of that: I love Handler's prose, his humor, his ability to string you along in suspense when you know the ending, and paramount here, his playfulness with plot structures and meta-narrative. In reading others' reviews online[^1], I am finding that detractors felt the main characters to be irritatingly privileged, unrealistic, and arty (to which I say *of course they are* — they are high school characters in a fictional book and *they are meant to be* — but I can see how that might make almost 400 page a slog to read for some[^2]) and that the twist was easy to guess.

Perhaps here is where I must turn in my English degree as I admit sheepishly that I did not see the twist coming at all, despite acknowledging Flannery as an unreliable narrator (clearly not realizing to what extent) and *knowing in advance that there was a twist*.[^3] I will reiterate my spoiler warning and no longer dance around it. Natasha, Flannery's best friend and a purported member of the Basic Eight friend group, does not exist — is a manifestation of Flannery's id, the voice and actor in what she wishes to say or do but lacks the courage to own. The twist is outplayed by the almost thirty years of media that stand between me and *The Basic Eight*'s publication (interestingly, the book was published in the same year *Fight Club* the movie was released, so perhaps it was more novel (get it?) a twist then), and it's a shlockiness that I don't expect from Handler (his adult novels, at least). In *his* defense, it was his first novel, and the shlock is intentional I think. And in *my* further defense (to whom? to whom?), while the twist is subtly revealed (thank you to the reviewer who mentioned page 99, which hits you right in the face), Handler also deliberately covers it up *through* the unreliable narration. There's layers-upon-layers of clever unreliability at work, but the twist nonetheless left me dissatisfied by the ending. I closed the book and was left asking, "Is that all there is?"

Having known that there was a twist ahead of me, I had hoped it was around Adam's murder. Flannery reveals early in the narrative that she kills Adam, a boy she is in love with — the entire narration of the book hinges upon this, and the murder is the climax of the book. As I reached that moment, I read almost through my fingers and hoped that the twist was that she didn't actually kill him; instead, that the twist was that she built this (again, intentionally) ridiculous narrative frame around an invented murder to cope with the simple fact of teenage heartbreak and shitty high school boys; creating the artifice of teen murder media frenzy as an allegory for the high school gossip scene; positioning herself as a ward of the state to punish herself for letting her teen angst bullshit tear apart the Basic Eight, her beloved band of misfits, disappointing and dissolving her friendship with Natasha, and losing herself in the process. The narrative frame would then fulfill Hattie's prophecy that Flannery would become wise — in a typically kooky Handler way, by constructing fictional talk shows and discussion questions — but with the empty lesson we adults learn: wisdom comes through experience, and that experience usually blows.

I am not a writer and it is for a good reason. Reader, she does kill Adam. My proposed revision is probably a corny ending too, and perhaps I need to eat the words I say to Joe as he makes us quit watching shows like *Search Party* because he can't stand to watch characters make bad decisions over and over again: that's conflict! That's what makes for interesting stories! Flannery has to kill Adam because I'd be just as dissatisfied if she *didn't*, and I'd be here complaining that Handler didn't have the guts to follow through on his promising hook. I'll keep telling myself that until I believe it.

I'm left annoyed. Natasha being Flannery's invented shadow-self seems clichéd by 2024 standards. It undercuts the beautiful, ride or die female friendship that I loved, especially during the uncomfortable[^4] episode with Mr. Carr. In fact, *without* Flannery and Natasha's friendship, the girls of the Basic Eight friend group — Flannery included — are awfully catty to each other, in a way that makes me uncomfortable considering this book was written by an adult man.[^5] Flannery's only supportive friends become the male ones — Douglas and Gabriel — and Kate and Flannery a derisive mockery of teenage girls who gossip and steal each other's flames. Kate's orchestration of the murder cover-up becomes a self-interested satisfaction that the ex who wronged her is dead; V___ is merely protecting her social standing; Lily is emotional and throws up in stress; Jenn I cannot remember at 1:28am; and Flannery, crucially, hates and excludes Flora. When there's no light in the dark — no Natasha for Flannery — the representation of teenage female friendships and, by extension, teenage female *characters* becomes sneering instead of complex.

Most egregiously, *The Basic Eight*'s twist feels like the bogey monster of *but the main character was crazy all along!*, which scrapes dangerously close to my other hated contrivance, *it was all a dream*, and it undercuts Handler's actual main goal: to satirize the media frenzy of violent teens and Satanic panic. You can't do that while also using the same devices of those who create Satanic panic. It's instead a satire Ouroboros, feeding the thing it hopes to destroy.

*The Basic Eight* is a good book. It is well-written and I enjoyed reading it mostly. The ending disappointed me. Those can all be compatible statements, simple truths, and I can live with that complication. I'll keep saying that too until I believe it.

*Adverbs*, I love you regardless.

[^1]: I am choosing in this moment to treat online reviews as a literary salon instead of the crippling self-doubt of not being able to figure out what I think without seeing how others feel. Am I a people pleaser? A phony? As Flannery would write, more on that later.
[^2]: I am a formerly pretentious high schooler with a livejournal archive as documentary evidence, so not only am I deeply accustomed to this portrait, and any irritation is tinged with that darkened self-awareness that I am, in many ways, looking into a mirror. Is my dissatisfaction with the twist and Flannery's eventual murder of Adam because I see too much of my teen self in Flannery? Discuss.
[^3]: *This was my fun summer poolside read, where I can just turn off my brain and read for entertainment !*, I say desperately, clinging to my waning credibility and intellect.
[^4]: It should be uncomfortable, because it's a high school teacher raping one of his students, but here I use uncomfortable to mean "I'm not sure I'm okay with this being a plot device in the book, especially under the light of Natasha not being real."
[^5]: Don't even get me started on the body image shit.